---
title: Insiration and Motivation
author: James R. Bracy
category: articles
layout: post
extract: "<p>Inspiration is a feeling to do something that comes from the person
who is inspired. The source of inspiration can be anything, a simple
rock on a well trodden path or a figure of history. The skillful
engineer who is a hard worked is also a source of inspiration that
others look up to. This drive to do something is not very powerful
except for a time. The rock that lies on the path has no way to
encourage someone to continue to push on through the difficulties and
challenges of a task, nor does a figure in history. In much the same
way the skilled engineer who does not interact or encourage others but
give his attention only to his work can not help a discouraged person
in time of need&hellip;"
---

Inspiration is a feeling to do something that comes from the person
who is inspired. The source of inspiration can be anything, a simple
rock on a well trodden path or a figure of history. The skillful
engineer who is a hard worked is also a source of inspiration that
others look up to. This drive to do something is not very powerful
except for a time. The rock that lies on the path has no way to
encourage someone to continue to push on through the difficulties and
challenges of a task, nor does a figure in history. In much the same
way the skilled engineer who does not interact or encourage others but
give his attention only to his work can not help a discouraged person
in time of need.

The difference between the skilled engineer and an influential leader
is the ability to motive others. The most productive teams are driven
not by a skilled person with raw talent, but by a person who motivates
and encourages. Motivation is very powerful. Giving people the drive
to do something can make an influential person. Inspiration comes from
a single person and affects a single person; motivation comes from a
single person and affects many people.

The ability to motivate is strong than the ability to inspire. Having
both makes you force to be reckoned with.
